>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah, so
for this next section,
we'll cover the essential Chrome DevTools,
which I've kind of outlined as
the elements, console and sources panel.
And we'll talk a little bit about what's
in them, how that stuff's created and
why it's like there's some
important distinctions to make.
I think, so back to the earlier page
where we've got this view source.
So this is like the actual text that
comes down in an index HTML file.
And one thing to note is that when you're
looking at the HTML inside the debugger,
it's not just that it kind of
like collapses the trees and
adds syntax highlighting to it.
There's like quite a distinction
to be made between HTML and
DOM, the document object model.
And so the important thing here is that,
what the elements panel is showing
you is this kind of living application
where that HTML has been rendered,
and then the CSS has been rendered and
the CSS has been applied to the HTML.
And then similarly, JavaScript has had
a chance to run and alter the HTML.
And so it goes from becoming this kind of
flat list of texts, the original source
code to being this very interactive DOM,
which has sizing information and
positional information, has attributes
applying it as event listeners.
I think there's an important
distinction to be made here.
And one way of visualizing it,
which is cool,
is there's this tool by
Hixie called the DOM viewer.
And you can kind of take some HTML.
And then you can, on the left, and then on
the right, you can actually see the kind
of JavaScript DOM view that is created
from it, just to kind of visualize that we
go from this idea of this kind of flat
list of tags to this tree of elements
with attributes and
properties, things like that.
And so when we're messing with the
elements panel, we're messing with this
living document object as opposed to just
like a very nicely laid out set of HTML.
There's a quite a big difference there
because all these attributes get applied
with just the HTML you don't really have
any way of knowing that that h1 is going
to get the font size 30 unless
you do it with your eyes.
But with the DOM it's already been parsed
and applied so we already know that that
HTML will have that class applied and
that there's a style sheet, etc.
So things have to be sort of
assembled before the elements view.
Another thing that's
kind of important is CSS.
So we're gonna get into it
a little bit where we'll
see this idea of computed styles or
this idea of conflicts in CSS.
And this can be very confusing
when looking at the DevTools,
but it's actually more
fundamental than that.
And so how many people here have heard
of this idea of CSS specificity?
Okay, cool, yeah, so
you've got this idea of specificity.
It's not important to remember the order,
it's just important to remember that there
is this kind of like battle that happens.
And the idea that you can think about
is you can think about having multiple
selectors that apply to a certain element.
And they all say the color should be.
So you can imagine a dev with a class and
an ID.
And then you have a CSS
selector that says, okay well,
devs should be the color blue.
And then you have a class selector that
says, that class should be the color red.
And then you have an ID selector that
says, that ID should be the color yellow.
And now the browser has to figure
out what color should be the div.
What to do with that information,
do I make it blue, or do I make it red,
or do I make it yellow, how do I do that?
And so we had to come up with
this standardized rule set for
it called CSS specificity.
And so you can kind of see
here that we have basically,
it's just this order of priority
that goes all the way up.
And so the more specific you get,
the more powerful it is.
And the less specific you get,
the less powerful it is.
And by specific, I mean if your CSS just
uses an element like dev, devs are blue.
That's not very specific,
right, that's vague.
It just applies to all divs.
Whereas if you have an ID on a div, like
an ID of important or ID of hello, and
you say divs with the ID
of hello are purple.
That's more specific, right?
So we've said that, yeah,
divs are blue, but this div is purple.
And it goes kind of all the way up,
eventually ending with that inline
important word, which I'm assuming
people have used while frustrated and
unable to get their styles
to apply correctly.
So there's a lot to be
kinda gleaned from here.
I think that coming up with
ways of doing your selectors so
that they won't accidentally
clash with other selectors,
like probably having an element selector
is something to largely stay away from.
Sometimes you'll want it for a base style.
You also don't necessarily wanna
cover your whole code with IDs, so
you can take advantage of
the nice parts of CSS.
But it leads into all of these
philosophical how to name your CSS classes
or when to use classes.
Classes are IDs, and that's really
out of the scope of this course.
But the important thing to know is
that the dev tools will show you,
after all the specificity rules applied,
which one is being shown.
And if you ever see your attribute
that you're looking for with a strike
through it, it's because something else
was more specific, that's why it's there.
So we're gonna cover all that.
The last thing to talk
about is source maps.
So, we mentioned this a little
earlier in the course, but more and
more these days,
the application code that runs is more and
more dissimilar from your
original source code.
Whether you have a Javascript app that
you've been running through, I don't know,
like Veet and Webpack and use Typescript
and those get stripped out and
then you use like Tercer and
it does this like optimizing.
You have this huge build pipeline, whether
you're doing some web assembly stuff and
it's an actual different programming
language like you write C++ or
you write rust and it runs as Javascript,
there's all this disconnect
kind of between these things.
And the dev tools is like the important
place where they do the best work
that they can to kind of reassemble things
and help you understand where these things
came from because more and more like if
you were looking at that view page source.
That's even less helpful now than it was
ten years ago because the chances are that
markup is being assembled from 80
different react components that are going
through Javascript and all being applied,
it gets very complicated.
And so we'll talk a little bit about,
the importance of source maps and
where those come into this as well.